# Hunt-the-Wumpus
This project centers in the application of graph and Dijkstra's algorithm to generate a map and find the shortest way. It simulates the game Hunt the Wumpus in which the Hunter has to find the invisible Wumpus and shoot it down. The maze for the game is a randomly generated graph in which the rooms are vertices and a door represent an edge between 2 vertices. The Hunter, always standing in one room, can only shoot or go to 1 of 4 neighboring rooms if there is a door between them (highlighted by a thicker green stroke that connects the walls of 2 rooms). In this maze, every edge weights 1. If the Hunter is only one step further than the Wumpus, his room will light up (the outline turns red). I use Dijktra's algorithm to check for the distance between the Wumpus and the Hunter and make sure that they stay connected.

The base program, HuntTheWumpus.java has quite minimal graphics in which characters are represented by simple shapes. 

The extended program has more adorable graphics in which the seeker is a Corgi and the hider is a Husky. It still works on the same mechanism. To run this program, run the file HideAndSeek.java. Use WASD to move and space bar to arm the corgi with the ball to throw. It has a new game button that will reset the game state and create a new random maze for you to play it again

A more challenging version is that the Husky can move every 2 moves that the Corgi has made. To balance out the difficulty, I also let the husky show up in the turn that is before it moves. The maze also has a teleport whose 2 ends are marked by small doors in the top right corner of the room. This version is way more difficult to win because you have to make a prediction of where the husky moves and throw the ball when it does not, or else it may dodge the ball and you will lose. To run this version, run the file RunningHusky.java
